some of Israel's closest allies have
condemned comments made by Minister bzel
smotrich about letting 2 million
Palestinians die of hunger SMR claimed
that it might be justified it might be
moral to let them starve until Israeli
captives are returned those comments
have been heavily criticized by the US
the UK and the European Union on
Thursday let's get more on that with
Phil LEL Phil is in Washington DC so
Phil tell us what's being said what's
the reaction in Washington to
well I think saying heavily criticized
is probably putting it mildly the Biden
Administration for one of a better word
seems pretty disgusted by these comments
it was a short statement that was
released but it was fairly to the point
it said we are appalled by these
comments and we reiterate that this
rhetoric is harmful and it is disturbing
the president and the Secretary of State
have repeatedly stressed the need to end
the humanitarian crisis in Gaza remove
any obstacles to the flow of Aid and
restore basic services for those in need
uh now of course these comments will
have been welcomed by some in the far
right side of Israel but they have been
widely uh frowned upon in the
International Community I mean the
European Union described them as uh well
put them in plain terms said if this is
a war crime deliberate starvation that's
how you describe it uh the France said
it had deep dismay at what it called
scandalous remarks and the UK said there
could be absolutely no justification for
these remarks but perhaps now that we've
seen some strong words come from the US
Israel's closest Ally maybe that will
hit home a little bit more well this is
just going to add to what are already
fraught relations between the Biden
Administration and the Netanyahu
government yeah I mean the government
here is really having to straddle two
lines at the moment because it is giving
unwavering support Ironclad is the word
that they're using for Israel in terms
of its defense against Hezbollah and
Iran but at the same time it is clearly
obvious through both observations and
through leaks uh that Joe Biden is
getting increasingly frustrated with
prime minister Netanyahu I mean just
remember last week when he was at that
air base welcoming those hostages back
from Russia uh a couple of journalists
threw some questions at him about the
situation in Gaza and Joe Biden said he
meaning prime minister Netanyahu has the
basis for a ceasefire he's got to accept
it and he also said that the killing of
isma Hane had not helped and
obviously CA Harris who also met
Netanyahu when he was in town last month
who could be president in January not
beyond the Realms of possibility she has
said that she will not remain silent on
the issue of Gaza so obviously there is
a lot of pressure now from the US on
Israel to accept that ceasefire but
these comments from the Finance Minister
will not have done any help no
absolutely and and disgust I think is
fair to say voiced by the UK the EU and
now the US disgust but not actions I
would add Phil LEL reporting from
Washington DC thank you very
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler